hello everybody in this video I am gonna
show you how to design an X nor gate out
of C Mon so here's a introduction the
symbol for an X nor gate looks like this
the truth table if we take the two
inputs a and B looks like this 1 0 0 1
and the equation is a following so this
is how xnor gate looks like so the most
important thing is to utilize this
equation because this has been a very
very important so let's now focus to
write down our pull-up network and our
pulldown network and then write down the
equations for each of them so for a
pull-up what we basically do is apply
the inverse of this equation so we have
a times B so what we have is the inverse
of a plus because there's a dot here the
inverse B so we have inverse of a plus
inverse of B
and then for this we apply the same
concept but this time since there's
already an inverse theirs won't be in
the pull-up network session so we have a
and then we have B here and then one
have an plus sign and then here we're
going to group them together by the
inverse in which we get this dot right
here and for a pulldown it's really
really easy it's simply the same thing
the same equation now let's draw our
CMOS circuit so now what we know our
pull-up or pulldown let's write down our
equations
so let's first draw our pull out network
circuit so we have VDD and right here
I'm gonna draw this circuit right here
and then let's draw our circuit here a
plus B and then since there's a and
state here we're gonna connect them in
series like this so there's our pull-up
network and I'll pull down Network we
have a times B so we have that in series
and then we have this in series again
but both this time both a and B is an
inverse
and then finally here if you have our
zero output and then our hi so excuse me
so this is low and this is high and this
is our here's our output now here is our
CMOS circuit but we're not done yet
because this is not how an X knowing X
nor gate works as you know that this is
how the X nor gate works is with these
following outputs this truth table but
the problem is is that this doesn't
match it so what we need to do is we
simply just have to apply an inverter to
it and this will operate like an X nor
gate so it's just draw an inverter here
[Music]
and there we go that's our xnor gate
hope you guys get a snapshot of this
just in case if you guys want to use
this for your homework well anyways
thank you guys so much for watching and
I will see you next time